Global Day of Prayer for


Burma


March 9, 2008 

March 9, 2008
Dear friends,
This message was sent by a relief-team leader training new relief teams 
inside Burma as we were planning this year’s day of prayer:


I am thankful to all of you who pray and care for the people of Burma 
and to God who has all things in His hands. As I look around the beautiful 
jungle valley we are in and see the rushing streams and rising mountains 
and enthusiastic new teams I am filled with gratitude. All of this is a gift 
from God and those of you who help us in this.


I was reminded again that we can not do this alone nor have we ever done 
anything alone here. This fills me with wonder at God’s provision and the 
generosity and breadth of vision from people like you. It also motivates all 
of us here to do our best and live full, free and useful lives that glorify God 
and honor you all.


We believe that:
1) God loves the people of Burma and we should be strong in the mighty 
power of God.
2) The rider on the white horse (Rev 19:11-14) will fight for the oppressed.
3) We should go deep and go ahead, not broad or shallow or sideways.
4) God reveals what lies in darkness. 


We are reminded and inspired that God cares and takes action in all of our lives.


Thank you all for your prayers, love and support. 
God bless you,
A relief-team leader, Karen State, Burma



Human Dignity


The Free Burma Rangers (FBR) is a multi-ethnic humanitarian service movement. They bring help, hope and love to 
internally displaced people under attack in the war zones of Burma. Teams are trained, supplied and sent into the areas 
under attack to provide emergency medical care, shelter, food, clothing and human rights documentation. The teams 
also operate a communication and information network inside Burma that provides real time information from areas 
under attacks. Together with other groups, the teams work to serve people in need. The letter below is from a doctor 
working with the Free Burma Rangers. It attempts to answer the questions of why and how to be involved in Burma: 

I am writing from the jungles of eastern Burma where I am teaching advanced medics with the Free Burma Rangers (FBR). In the 
publication A Campaign of Brutality (http://www.freeburmarangers.org/Features/20070315_NorthernKarenState.pdf ), FBR gives 
10 reasons why it is right to be involved in Burma. The very first listed is for human dignity. In a land such as Burma, the value of a 
human life becomes more than some distant theoretical discussion. It becomes a serious and very personal issue. 

As I struggled with the idea of human dignity, I decided to ask the medics what they thought. One of the medics, named Raykaw, 
answered, “Once, because God gave us love, so we need to love each other… to help each other. That is our dignity.” I then asked 
him if that would apply to an injured Burma Army soldier who came to him for treatment. At first, Raykaw looked at me as if he 
didn’t understand the question. Slowly, thoughtfully, he replied: “For me, if [a Burma Army soldier] came to me… I want to help 
them. They need love and help. For example, when we see them, if they have no one to help them to stop their bleeding, they 
will need something to keep their life. For me, we need to help them. If they are bad after that, no problem… That’s up to them.” 
These are the words of a very experienced medic, one who has seen the atrocities of the Burma Army with his own eyes. One who 
has spent years risking his life to bring medical help to people hiding from the Burma Army in the jungle. One who, as a child, was 
himself displaced from his home by these very soldiers. For Raykaw, his human dignity is to be able to give to others, even to his 
enemies. Period. His profound statement is backed up by his life as a Free Burma Ranger medic. 

Giving is clearly one aspect of God’s own nature. As beings made in His image, giving becomes one aspect of our own human 
dignity. Even if, as Raykaw said, it means giving to an enemy who would turn right around and do us harm. I have come to believe 
that our human dignity is wrapped up in our ability to exhibit any of our maker’s characteristics. Generous giving. Creativity. Love. 
Courage. Kindness. Free choice. And to do it solely because it is of God… because it is truly good. If so, then it is our duty, our 
honor, even our dignity as Christians to enable and protect the capacity of all men to exhibit those characteristics in their lives. 

This is the reason I believe it is right and critically important as a Christian to be involved in Burma. Just as the Free Burma Rangers 
describe… “for human dignity.” For me, not only does this answer the why to be involved, it also addresses the how to be involved. 
“Once, because God gave us love, so we need to love each other… to help each other.” That is our dignity—even to love our 
enemies. 


Running races during a Christmas celebration in northern Karen State. Teacher hands out blankets to IDPs. Saw Wah Der, Jan 07. 


Good Life Club 

Chin refugees. 
Continuing school while in hiding. Saw Wah Der, Jan 07. 
Studying in the jungle. 
Karen child at the burned ruins of her home. Jan 07. 



Letter from a Partners team member helping 
the FBR to train Good Life Club counselors: 

“Yes, I know what that feels like,” said Kaw 
Bla Sei. “My mother and I were captured by 
the Burma Army when I was 5 years old. For 
a whole day they dragged us through the 
jungle without any food and water. Then they 
let us go. After that happened I was always 
afraid. It did not go away until I turned 12.” 

The group I was speaking to was the Good 
Life Counselors. They are the men and 
women who will focus on the needs of 
children when they, together with the rest 
of the relief team they are a part of, enter a 
village or an IDP site. “Why are the children 
important?” I ask them. “Because they are 
the future!” is the answer I get back. “What is 
the most important quality you need to serve 
the children?” “We must love them.” On their 
journey to the villages and hide sites of the 
displaced people, they will try to find ways to 
meet both the physical and spiritual needs. 

After a class is over Kaw Bla Sei says, “A 
while ago I found four children aged 4 to 10 
wandering aimlessly around a village. They 
did not have any parents. I helped them get 
to a refugee camp where they were taken 
in at an orphanage. They are all doing really 
well now.” 

Saw Kiaw has chosen to follow Jesus’ calling 
to serve the little children, and I believe 
there will be a real, special prize for people 
like him. Until then he will be busy looking 
for children in need. 

Kids Packs 
- small comb and mirror 
- a box of children’s chewable 
vitamins 
- 2 children’s toothbrushes 
- fingernail clippers 
- a small toy 
- a drawing or photograph of you 
or your group 
- a postcard from your city or state 
with a verse of scripture 
Mom and Baby Packs 
- small fingernail clippers 
- multi-vitamins for mom 
- pediatric vitamins 
(not needing refrigeration) 
- 2 sets for baby including cap, 
hand mitts, shirt (not a onesie) 
- a teether 
- a drawing or photograph of you 
or your group 
- a postcard from your city or state 
with a verse of scripture 
Shipping Information: 
Thank you for your help in sending 
the packs to us. At this time, it is 
still not possible to send charitable 
bulk shipments to us. Please send 
standard household/gift size boxes 
with the description, 
“household/personal goods” on the 
customs form. 
Send packs standard airmail (USA: 
not to exceed 79 inches length/ 
width/girth) to the address on 
the back of this booklet, with the 
name, “GLC”. 
The Good Life Club program is based 
on the words of Jesus in John 10:10, 
“ The thief comes to kill and destroy; 
but I have come that they may have 
life and have it abundantly!” The word 
abundant is so big and full... only 
Jesus can truly meet all of our needs 
in an abundant way. In whatever 
ways we are able, we hope to bring 
love and faith, along with tools for a 
good life, body and soul. These include 
teaching, primarily bible lessons and 
healthcare, songs and games, and a 
school pack for the teachers. 

Pray for your enemies


Fighting the Serpent by Praying for the Enemy 

The chief and most powerful enemy of human beings is the 
deceiver of Adam and Eve, the serpent, our ancient foe that 
“seeks to work us woe.” It wants to destroy the image of God 
in the world. It wants to damage and destroy our bodies, our 
minds, our hearts and our souls. 

In this way, even in Burma the Burma Army is not our biggest 
enemy. Our biggest enemy is the serpent, a symbol of Satan. 
If we forget that our biggest enemy is the serpent, we can forget 
that God can redeem even the worst commanders and soldiers 
in the dictator’s military. Many of them are caught in a web of 
oppression and deceit themselves. A Burma Army general is a 
human being. 

He is not the serpent. This can help us pray for even the worst 
of the soldiers and commanders. We can pray that their eyes be 
opened to see that God hates hands that shed innocent blood. 
We can pray that they be released from the power of the serpent 
and their own bad decisions. We can pray blessing upon them, 
that the power of bad things in them weakens while the power 
of good things in them grows. We can pray that they begin to 
hunger and thirst after righteousness. 

When Jesus tells us to love our enemies and pray for them, this 
is not a counsel of weakness. It is not a mystery that cannot be 
understood. 

If we pray for someone we pray not that they become strong to 
do evil, but that they become strong to do good. This is just 
what we want for our enemies, and for the enemies of the 
people of Burma. We want the power of darkness in these 
enemies to grow weak. There is no better way to do this than 
to love those who hate and to pray for them. Love takes away 
strength from hate, and the power of prayer comes directly 
against the power of evil. 

We can help the people of Burma by praying for the soldiers 
who do evil things to them. When we do this we fight against 
the biggest enemy of us all. When we show love and pray for 
enemies, we send strong weapons into battle against our ancient 
foe the serpent. 

Jesus tells us to be wise as serpents, and innocent as doves. If 
we do not know how to think like serpents, we may get bit by 
them. If we do not remember to act like doves, we may turn into 
serpents ourselves. When we pray strategically for the enemies 
of the innocent, we attack the thinking and activity of the 
serpent head-on. When we pray for enemies in love, we act with 
the purity of intention and action of the dove—the symbol of 
the Holy Spirit of God. 

Burma Army soldiers force a porter to carry their supplies. 
Burma Army forces porters to carry their supplies. Sept 07. 
Bulldozer being used to clear new roads in Nyaunglebin and Papun Districts. April 07. 

Relief Teams 

with internally displaced people in Burma 


From a relief-team leader: 

During a relief mission, one of our team 
members asked to be baptized. 

His name is Saw Hser Wah (“Sweet 
White”) and he was an animist from 
the Toungoo area of the Karen State. He 
joined one of the FBR teams this year 
as a communications specialist. As you 
know, we have people of many faiths 
on our teams and all are welcome. In 
the Karen area most team members 
are Christians but not all. We had just 

held a meeting with our headquarters 
team and the team Hser Wah is on and 
they volunteered to go on a mission to a 
particularly dangerous area. 

Hser Wah came up to us and said, 
“Tomorrow we set out on a new mission 
and maybe I will die. If I die, I do not 
know what will happen to me. I want 
to give my life to God and be baptized 
because if I do so, even if I die, I know 
I will be with God. Please, if you have 
time, baptize me.” 

Baptism Dec 06. 

Hser Wah was baptized in a stream at a 
fork in the trail where our teams were 
heading west and his team was heading 
north. The local people, all IDPs—some 
animist and some Christian—joined in 
the service. We thanked God and one 
month later met up with Hser Wah and 
his team again. 

He said, “See I am still alive and now that 
I belong to God I am not afraid but I am 
also in no hurry to die either!” 






Shan relief-team medic treating a Shan displaced woman. Sept 07. 




Arakan relief team with displaced people in western Burma. 




Lahu relief team gives medical treatment to displaced villagers. 

Two relief-team 
members who died 
during 2006-2007. 

Lee Reh, who was captured, tortured and killed 
in April 2007 by the Burma Army during a relief 
mission to help the internally displaced. 

Chit Doh, a Karenni relief-team leader who 
became sick and died this past year. 


Porters 

The Burma Army forces both villagers and 
prisoners as porters. The Burma Army has 
used more than 1,700 prisoner porters in 
their current offensive in northern Karen 
State which began in February 2006. 
More than 256 have been reported dead, 
many of whom were executed. Among 
the porters in Papun Distict alone, there 
are more than 20 child porters (boys 
under 16 years old from Insein Prison). 

The Burma Army is now using the term 
“transporter” or woon htan instead of 
“prisoner porter” to describe the people 
they force to carry their loads. 

Villagers forced to carry loads for the Burma Army in June 07. 

The following information is from 
escaped porters, Burma Army deserters 
and villagers who have seen the bodies 
of dead porters. Porters are beaten and 
poorly fed. If they cannot carry loads they 
are often beaten to death or shot. Some 
who become sick are given an injection 
of an unknown drug and these porters 
reportedly die within a few hours. 

Porter killed by the Burma Army. Jan 07. 

Porters who were killed by the Burma 
Army or who died from sickness as they 
carried loads: 

Nyaunglebin District: Of the more than 
400 porters used in this area, more than 
20 have died. 


Papun District: Of the more than 700 
porters used in this area, 150 porters died 
by torture, by execution and by sickness 
(dysentery is the most often cited). 

Toungoo District: Of the more than 600 
prisoner porters, 95 were killed. Some 
were reportedly killed because their 
throats were cut, and others starved to 
death. Note: Not counted yet are any of 
the deaths resulting from the more than 
850 villagers used to carry loads for the 
Burma Army. 

Total*: 1,700 porters, 265 dead. 

(*Totals as of December 2006) 

Maw Pu Army camp in northern Karen State. 

As Good As It Gets


A story from a relief mission in Burma 

Last week we were providing relief to a group of Karen people in 
their hiding place. These people had fled their homes when the 
Burma Army attacked and were living in lean-tos and makeshift 
shelters in the jungle. We had been in this area since early January 
and had just about exhausted our medical and other relief supplies. 
The medics were able to treat most of the cases we saw and the 
two cases that we could not treat we were able to evacuate. 

It was just getting dark when a man came up to me carrying an 
old woman. “This is my grandmother,” he said. “She is 97 years old 
and has been blind for four years; can you help her?” 

I said a quick silent prayer, and thought that probably the only 
help we could give was love and some vitamins. Her grandson set 
her gently down in front of me, as all the medics were busy. She 
squatted down with her thin arms dangling down beside her legs. 
She began to shake. I asked her if she was cold and she said yes. I got 
a Good Life Club jacket that Partners had donated and put it on her. 
She smiled broadly and said repeatedly, “Thank you, thank you.” 

Her eyes were squeezed tight and with the help of her grandson 
we opened them for examination. Her eyes were small, 
misshapen and looked partially dissolved. They did not look much 
like eyes anymore. I asked the medics their opinion and they said, 
“She has been blind a long time, is very old, and so there is no way 
to fix those now.” I told her we could not help her eyes and I got 
some vitamins from the medics and gave them to her grandson 
with instructions. And then I prayed for her. That was it; no 
healing and no treatment for her eyes. The grandson then smiled 
and as he started to pick her up, he thanked us again. 

She held out her arms and grabbed him tightly from behind, 
drawing her legs up so that he could carry her on his back. She 
looked secure there and laid her head against his shoulder. As 
they walked away I almost began to cry. There she was, all folded 
up on her grandson’s back, with her new GLC jacket with the 
smiley face logo shining. Off they went to their hiding place with 
no healing, no promise of security and no certain future. But for 
the moment she seemed content and was warm and I thought, 
“This is as good as it gets.” 

We want to help everyone, we want to be part of real change in 
Burma, but in reality sometimes we cannot do very much. But 
the little we each can do is sometimes as good as it gets here. We 
thank you all and all the individuals and organizations that are 
working together to make positive change for Burma. We thank 
God that in this life of triumphs and tragedy, of contentment and 
distress, there are good things that happen and with love, there is 
always a way. 

God bless you, 

A relief-team leader 

Grandmother with new jacket being carried by grandson Jan 07. 
Karen medic gives medical treatment to a landmine victim. Dec 06. 
Day of Prayer for Burma celebrated in Paan District in Mar 07. 

Oppression, hope and taking a stand in Burma


For over fifty years, the dictators of Burma 
have waged war against their own civilian 
population. The demonstrations of 2007 
were put down brutally. The war against 
the ethnic peoples continues. It is a war 
backed by a military of more than 400,000 
soldiers and is supported by 50% of the 
nation’s budget. 
The Burma Army’s methodology is to 
conduct large-scale offensives like the 
one described in this report, followed 
by consolidation of territory gained 
and expansion of control and then the 
launching of new attacks. 
In spite of this oppression, the people 
of Burma have not given up. They 
need prayer, immediate protection, 
humanitarian assistance, and support for 
their pro democracy organizations. Demonstrations led by monks in Rangoon, Sept 07. ©Thierry Falise 
©Thierry Falise 
Monks protesting in Rangoon, Sept 07. Shan, Pa’O, and Lahu IDPs demonstrating unity. 


KWO, KYO and FBR team members from Nyaunglebin 
District send message of unity with demonstrators. 
Aung San Suu Kyi Shan, Karen, Karenni relief teams support the demonstrators. 

Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize Laureate, has now spent more than 
12 years under house arrest. She is the leader of the National League for 
Democracy (NLD), the party which won over 80% of the vote in the 1990 
elections in Burma. The military dictatorship responded by ignoring the 
results of the elections and jailing members of the opposition. 


Father and daughter flee Burma Army attacks. Nurse injured by Burma Army mortar in March 07. 


Fleeing Burma Army attacks in Karen State. IDP woman with children in a hiding site. Jan 07. 

Families flee across road controlled by Burma Army. Dec 06. 

Faith and Doubt 

It often seems that we here are easily swayed by our 
circumstances. I was writing a message to friends under attack 
in Burma and ending the message with Proverbs 3:5 6. Later 
I realized I had left out the part that says “with all your heart.” 
It is difficult for most of us, I think, to trust God with all of our 
hearts. I am very grateful for your prayers and God’s mercy to 
help us do that. We will try daily to trust God with our whole 
hearts and for me it is like a choice between the planting and 
growing of two different trees: one called Doubt, the other Faith. 

There are two trees before me I can help to grow. One is the 
tree of doubt. This one is easy to see, and has a clear, seemingly 
straight shot to the sky. It grows fast. But every time I put 
energy into helping that tree grow—and grow it does—the fruit 
that comes is poison with all of poison’s effects to me and others. 

The other tree is called faith, and is much harder to grow. It is 
often choked by weeds and we seem to be standing in a thicket 
where we can not even see the sky. But the efforts of faith, 
prayer, the help of others as well as clinging to God for help, 

makes it grow—however slowly. The wonderful thing is that 
the fruit of this tree is good in every way. And it is the fruit of 
this tree by which God gives us an insight into His view. By this 
fruit we can see some of the results of faith. Faith, by earthly 
definition, cannot be seen, but by the good fruit that comes 
from it, God has given us an insight into it. He has given us 
something tangible to hold on to. My prayer for you is the same 
as it is for me: to choose to grow the tree of faith and hold on to 
God for the strength to do it. 

Thank you and may God bless you all, 
Christians Concerned for Burma 

“Trust in the Lord will all your heart and lean not on your own 
understanding, in all your ways acknowledge Him and He will 
direct your paths.” Proverbs 3:5-6 

This booklet has been produced by Christians Concerned for Burma (CCB). All text copyright CCB 2008. All rights 
reserved. This booklet may be reproduced if proper credit is given to text and photos. All photos copyright Free Burma 
Rangers (FBR) unless otherwise noted. Scripture portions quoted are taken from the NIV unless otherwise noted. 

Christians Concerned for Burma (CCB)
P.O. Box 14, Mae Jo, Chiang Mai 50290, THAILAND
www.prayforburma.org , info@prayforburma.org



