Global Day of Prayer 

for Burma


March 11, 2007



The Attacked


2006 Offensive by Burma Army Displaces Over 
25,000 Villagers in Northern Karen State

The people in these photos are some of the over 25,000 
displaced by the Burma Army in the worst offensive since 
1997. The unrelenting attacks in the Karen State are part of 
the plan by the dictators to completely dominate, chase out 
or crush any Karen people in these areas.

While the scale of displacement and destruction 
is massive, people die individually, each death an 
irreplaceable loss. Saw They Shur was burned alive by 
Burma Army soldiers in his home at Play Hta Village, 
near Hoki, Toungoo District. He was 47 years old and 
married with six children. His wife and children are 
now in hiding. 

In April 2006 in Nyaunglebin District, we treated 
a 9-year-old girl, Naw Eh Ywa Paw, or the “Flower 
that Loves God” after she was shot (her father and 
grandmother were shot dead in the same attack). She 
is now on the run again with over 1,500 others in her 
valley. They were attacked for trying to stay with their 
families in a hiding place near their destroyed village.
The disruption of their food production, the burning of 
their homes and the shoot-on-sight orders of the Burma 
Army have made staying in their homeland untenable 
for thousands more. They need immediate protection 
and the freedom to return to their homes. Because of 
these attacks they also need food, medicine, shelter and 
help to rebuild their homes, schools and lives.

In hiding in Mon Township, Karen State, following 

Burma Army attacks.


The Attackers

Burma Army soldiers in a Karen village. This photo 
was taken at great risk by a relief team leader hiding 
in an area occupied by the Burma Army.


Karen families flee Toungoo District.


Fleeing Burma Army’s attacking troops.



Naw Eh Ywa Paw 

Naw Eh Ywa Paw

The Flower that Loves God

Dear friends,

These are pictures of “the Flower that Loves 
God”, a 9-year-old Karen girl who was shot and 
wounded while her father and grandmother were 
shot to death by the Burma Army in April 2006. 
She eventually recovered and with her mother, 
brother and sisters, moved to a new hiding place 
near their old village in Mon Township, Karen 
State. The Burma Army is now attacking the place 
where she and others are hiding, and she is on the 
run again. 

The Burma Army needs to be stopped, and she, 
her family and the other Karen need to be able to 
go home. Until that happens this is an emergency 
situation and she and her people need protection, 
food, medicine and shelter.

Thank you and 

God bless you,

A relief team leader

Northern Karen State

FBR


Here she is recovering in late April at a new hiding 
place. In November 2006 she had to flee again and is 
now in hiding with over 1,500 others. 


Eh Ywa Paw being 

treated by the team 

after she was shot by 

Burma Army troops, 
early April 2006. 


Relief team holds service for Naw Eh Ywa Paw’s father 
and grandmother with her aunt, the sister of 

Saw Maw Keh. 

The body of her father, Saw Maw Keh, where he 
was shot carrying her 80-year-old grandmother 
(who was also shot) as all three were trying to flee 
the Burma Army. 



With Displaced Karen in Burma:

A Message from a Relief Team


We have spent most of the year on relief missions with 
some of the over one million displaced Karen, Karenni and 
Shan people in Eastern Burma as they fled Burma Army 
attacks. Bad things happen here, but I would like to share 
some of the good things, starting with an excerpt from a 
message we sent from the field.

“Over 150 people in a long straggling line were moving 
towards us across the rice fields. One of our team members 
said, ‘Those are newly displaced people from Toungoo 
District who have been on the move for two weeks fleeing 
the Burma Army’. As I approached them I saw the strain 
on their faces and heard the babies crying. I suddenly felt 
like I did not have much good news to share. That night, 
as our team and I spent time with these people, a different 
picture began to emerge: families huddled around small 
fires eating rice supplied by the local village and resistance 
invited us to join them and soon children were laughing 
and adults were smiling. We treated patients, talked and 
prayed with them. The next morning as they prepared 
to keep moving we joined them for prayer and our team 
sang the hymn “Holy, Holy, Holy” with them. When we 
finished, Naw Nancy, a 60-year-old Karen school teacher, 
said to us, ‘Thank you, but please wait, we want to sing for 
you and give you something’. All the people stood up as 
she led them in a Karen hymn, “God is Full of Power”. We 
were all moved and departed with smiles and handshakes 
– we to continue our mission, and they to a safer place.”

Joy in the midst of difficulty; faith in the midst of

uncertainty; choosing to be thankful instead of dwelling 
on misery. These are the lessons the Karen people keep 
teaching us. The following are a few of many other good 
things the team and I have experienced on these missions.

1) People like you, who pray for, encourage and support 
us. You care about these people; you choose to have an 
eternal perspective and you lift us up.

2) The wonderful, amazingly capable and brave men and 
women who make up the relief teams. They are full of 
love, humor, and the toughness to go anywhere needed.

3) How people under direct Burma Army attack help each 
other. Even as some are killed, others run back to help the 
survivors, especially to carry the children.

4) For Eh Ywa Paw, the 9-year-old girl shot by the Burma 
Army, and her survival.

5) For people in the resistance like Mr. Eh Wa, a high 
school teacher for displaced children, who always smiles 
and yet only sees his family twice a year and has already 
spent seven years in prison. When asked why he endures 
separation from his family and the risk of capture or death, 
he said with a smile, “For the freedom of my people”.

6) For faith and making the best of each day. After one 
service with IDPs we walked a few hours to where the 
Burma Army had attacked a village destroying homes, 
looting possessions and burning the village church. It was 
a thing of beauty to watch the Karens’ agility and speed in 
the jungle. They watched for the Burma Army but when 
we passed under a fruit tree, they stopped and climbed 
high in the tree to bring us some fruit. They exemplify 
men completely at home in their environment, sure of 
themselves yet not arrogant. They are fluid in motion and 
appreciative of all of nature’s bounty. At the remains of the 
village, these men looked at the destruction and then at us. 
They shrugged and one man smiled saying, “We have to 
try... this is our home... we will not give up”. 


We are reminded that evil is not the only power in the 
world. God is here with us, has suffered for us, and knows 
our suffering. Through it all, love triumphs and the soul 
cannot be killed. We are thus free to do what is right, to 
ask forgiveness when we do wrong and to try again. To 
build and rebuild, to love and serve and to enjoy all the 
gifts of life. This lesson was taught by you, by the Karen 
people and I believe, by Jesus who shows us the way and 
with mercy, helps us on that way. For Christ’s sacrifice and 
friends like you I am grateful.

-A relief team leader and the teams and families inside.

Matthew 28:1-20

Karenni IDPs join in the Global Day of Prayer. 


Saw Brave born in hiding during the 2006 offensive in northern 
Karen State.



Internally Displaced People (IDPs)…

running for their lives


Village burned by the Burma Army on 27 April, 2006, 
Taw Ko Toe Baw, Muthraw District, Karen State.

Families Displaced in Eastern Burma.


Burma Army attacks and chases Karenni villagers 
from their homes, then burns their villages. 

Arakan relief team gives medical attention to 
displaced persons.

Porters

This man was used 
as a porter by the 
dictators’ army and 
beaten. He escaped 
and was cared for by 
the Karen resistance. 
After receiving medical 
treatment he began his 
journey home. On the 
way he was captured 
and killed by the 
Burma Army in a betel 
nut grove. 


Cooking pot and cover destroyed by 
the Burma Army to terrorize villagers 
and drive them from their homes.



Forced Labor and Captivity


Burma Army 
Division 
66 soldier 
recording 
the names 
of the forced 
laborers.


Villagers in Nyaunglebin District forced to build a fence around their 
village and the new Burma Army camp nearby.

Some of the 850 people forced to 
carry supplies for the Burma Army 
Division 66.


IN PRISON

Naw Baby, a Karen nurse, age 
22 years, captured by the Burma 
Army and now serving an eight-
year sentence. Naw Baby is the 
second lady from the right, 
wearing red. Before she was 
captured she and the other nurses 
had said, “We are afraid of the 
Burma Army, but we want to help 
our people and our Karen Nation, 
so we try.” Please pray for this 
young woman and her freedom. 
Thank you,

The Free Burma Rangers

November 1, 2006


Aung San Suu Kyi

Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize Laureate, has now 
spent over 11 years under house arrest. She is the leader 
of the National League for Democracy (NLD), the party 
which won over 80% of the vote in the 1990 elections in 
Burma. The military dictatorship responded by ignoring 
the results of the elections and jailing members of the 
opposition.



Shan State


From Forced Labor and Drug Addiction 

to Freedom: One Shan Story

Nang Sap, 
captured by the 
Burma Army 
when she was 
5 years old, has 
been missing 
for seven years. 
She is reported 
dead, sacrificed 
at the Ho Mong 
temple by 
Burma Army 
troops.

This Shan family fled their village in Shan State where 
they had been forced to work for the Burma Army under 
brutal conditions. The father was addicted to opium and 
the mother to amphetamines. They told us the Burma 
Army gave them drugs as payment and to keep them 
under control. Their two little daughters were dirty and 
malnourished. They had been walking for days and hiding 
from Burma Army and Wa Army patrols as they escaped 
to the south. They told us they heard that the Shan pro-
democracy resistance had a protected area for displaced 
people like them and that the Shan State Army could help 
them kick their drug dependencies. We were glad to lead 
them there, and put the family in the center of our column 
as we headed back to this protected area.

It became very difficult for the family to move fast as the Burma 
and Wa armies pursued us, even though we were already carrying 
their two girls and belongings. We had to give the mother an IV 
and were just able to get them to the safe area. 

Two years later we were preparing for a mission deeper 
inside and met this family again. They were in the same 
safe area of displaced people that we had brought them 
to. We were amazed at how healthy and strong they were. 
They smiled when we met. They had been off all narcotics 
since they arrived two years ago. They were free, had a 
solid cabin, farmed the hills around the site and sent their 
daughters to the local school for displaced people. To see 
them strong and smiling is a wonderful answer to prayer. 
Thanks to all of you for being part of this. 

-A relief team leader, FBR

Nang Sap at 4 years old. 

There are multiple eyewitness accounts of her capture 
by the Burma Army, which put her in a backpack and 
took her to a new pagoda being built in Ho Mong, 
Shan State. There she was reportedly entombed with 
two other children as a sacrifice. Her mother is still in 
trauma. This is not the only case of human sacrifice 
that has been reported.


Raped by the Burma Army

Mway Khan (above-name changed), 
a young Shan girl who was raped 
by a Burma Army soldier. She was 
9 years old at the time and is deeply 
traumatized and still suffering from 
the violent rape. Her family fled to a 
displaced persons site after the rape. 
The rape occurred in Ho Mong, 
Southeastern Shan State. A Shan FBR 
team helped this girl and her family 
escape last year. She is 10 years old 
now.


Massacre of 16 
Shan villagers on 
22 October 1996, 
Ho Yan Village, 
Khun Hing District. 
Remains found on 
30 May 2006.

(Right) A seventeen-year-old girl raped for two days by 
three Burma Army soldiers, 16-17 May 2006.



Relief Team Members Lost and Remembered


Saw Mu 1983-2006

A Letter from a Relief Team Leader, 6 May 2006

Yesterday we lost one of our best men due to a landmine placed by 
the Burma Army. His name was Saw Mu (Mr. Happy). We called 
him Mr. Afraid because he was not. He was the Muthraw District 
FBR team video cameraman. He was the team counselor and 
volunteered for additional duty, with the Good Life Club’s children 
programs. He was a bright, humble and brave young man. We are 
saddened by his death but believe he did not die in vain and was 
the finest example of Karen manhood. His was a full life of giving 
to many and he set an example of servant leadership. He died 
putting a light on the current Burma Army attacks on civilians 
and that light is shining. Saw Mu was single, a Christian and his 
hope was in God. He was always smiling and laughing and was a 
friend to me and my family. Even though his life has made a great 
difference for good, for me, only God’s promise of a new life gives 
me any hope in the situation of his death. We will do our best to 
honor Saw Mu, help his family and are blessed to have walked in 
this land with him.

Mya Win (left) documents road crossing

Saw Mya Win 

A Letter From Mya Win’s Wife

(He died while serving displaced people in his home, Toungoo 
District, Northwestern Karen State.)

Dear Free Burma Rangers, 

First, I want to thank all of you because you let me know about 
my husband’s passing away. Until now, I did not know where 
my husband died or the disease that he died from. I was very sad, 
but when I saw and got your letter and your encouragement, I 
was happy. If not, I did not know nothing. Please do not find a 
replacement for him, I will replace him on the FBR team. My 
husband has died, but I won’t give up, just as my husband tried for 
his people while he was alive. So, I will try and do something for 
my people, too. Please do not replace him. I will replace him. Please 
excuse me for one year and I will prepare, right now I am quite busy, 
but for the coming years I will find and do something for my people. 

Dear Tha-U-Wa-A-Pa,

(An FBR team leader’s name meaning “Father of the White Monkey”)

I need your help to have two or three men help me to go back to 
do a memorial service my for husband. I would like to request you 
to send Mya Win and his daughter’s photo that he took before he 
died. Please, if you see it send it back to me. I will keep it for a 
remembrance. If MyaWin’s photos show any of you, please send it 
back to me too please. I wish for all of you, that you will pray for 
Mya Win’s family always. 


The Face of 
Relief

One year ago, 
medics found 
this boy with a 
badly burned 
face. After initial 
treatment from 
the medics 
and additional 
treatment at a 
nearby mobile 
clinic, the boy is 
now completely 
healed.

This letter was found placed next 
to a Burma Army landmine. The 
following text was found on a similar 
sign found later, that was placed with 
a Burma Army landmine.

From Burma Army: 

“For the hiding villagers” 

(1) No one is allowed to live in this 
area. 

(2) People must move to Muthey or 
beside the car road at the relocation 
site as soon as possible, by 5 May. 

(3) Our troops do not want to shoot 
and capture. 

(4) By this date (5 May) anyone who 
stays in this area will be shot. This is a command from above. 

(5) You can come back when this area has peace. 

(6) Karen soldiers, do not do work that God and angels don’t like such as 
putting landmines and setting ambushes. Make peace and live together 
happily with your family. 



Message From an FBR Relief 

Team Leader:

These pictures of people praying, 
hiding, fleeing and of a medic carrying 
a child to safety show faith, suffering, 
uncertainty, love in action and hope. 
In Proverbs 3:5-6, we are urged, “Trust 
in the LORD with all your heart and 
lean not on your own understanding; 
in all your ways acknowledge Him, 
and He will make your paths straight.” 
It is not easy to trust God with all of 
our hearts, especially when we suffer. 
But there is no other way to live with 
faith than to give God our whole 
hearts no matter what each of us are 
facing wherever we are. May we give 
ourselves wholeheartedly to God as He 
leads us on.


Thank you for your prayers and for 
your stand with the people of Burma. 

God Bless you, 

A Relief Team Leader

Free Burma Rangers 

Villagers on the run from Burma Army attacks in Eastern Burma.


Displaced villagers praying in a hiding place during a rainstorm.


Christians Concerned for 
Burma (CCB)

P.O. Box 14, Mae Jo

Chiang Mai, 50290

Thailand

ccb@pobox.com

www.prayforburma.org

Relief worker carrying a displaced child running away from Burma Army attacks.



